# predicting-nba-win-loss-records
Goal: Predict the number of wins for a given season for each team using average player metrics in addition to other metrics.

Models Used: Decsion Tree Regressor, Linear Regression, Ridge Regression, and Lasso Regression.

Predicting the number of wins for a given season is helpful as it can help create trends; thus, individuals can predict what the next season might look like based on past seasons. For people who enjoy betting on sports results, an optimal model would guarantee successful wagers on every game. According to a study by Statista, “Sports betting is the most popular online betting activity and makes up 40.3% of the total US sports betting industry value”. We can see from many findings that sports betting is a popular activity with a large audience; thus, utilizing and creating a classifier that predicts wins and losses could benefit these communities.  Another reason that led to the motivation to create this classifier was the stakeholders. Not only will individual sports enthusiasts benefit from this classifier, but the stakeholders on the opposite end could also gain positive outcomes. Many sport betting companies would probably benefit from this classifier if they had private access to it; thus, they would know which way bets would sway and use it to estimate how much surplus or income flow might come in. After doing some research, we can state that this classifier will continue to be important as “It's predicted that the online sports betting market's value will exceed $93 billion by 2023 and $131.4 billion by 2027.” Thus our motivation does not merely arise from our interest in basketball, but also because of the large economic and growth impact this industry holds. Additionally, one could use these results to adjust the team and better understand the players' strengths and weaknesses. Not only can this be used by individuals betting, but team owners and coaches could also use this classifier to assess the progress and performance of each player on a team and compare it to other teams' performances as well. This project idea is not limited to one team or even one sport; other games could utilize the information gathered from a perfect classifier to improve their strategies. This application could be used to make predictions for sports betting, allowing one to weigh the odds against the likelihood that the team wins.
